---
layout: post
title:      "My First Sinatra Project"
date:       2020-07-20 20:06:58 -0400
permalink:  my_first_sinatra_project
---


You would think you would be better prepared for future projects and be armed with knowlegde and resources, but wow, I have to say this project was as difficult and tedious as the first. Not too much because of lack of knowlegde or anything but because of one can never fully be prepared for everything. It was grueling getting errors at every corner due to mispelling or of not knowing how to properly code this line. I was planning on going over the top with this project but when trying to did I realize I needed to know allot more than I currently did. I didn't want to rely so much on my cohort lead and try hard to search the answers to my questions but even that was difficult to for some reason I still don't know about. In the end though I did decide that I need to take baby steps towards coding and push hard when I can. It was a challenge to try to go beyond what the project initially was but I left notes of what I wanted to improve on later in the future. What I like about coding is that you can keep learning and trying as long as you are motivated to go through errors and difficulties. My project is a basic idea space for game creations. I had difficulties here and there with setting it up. There is more that I wish to do to it later on in the future for personal practice. I tried to incorporate CSS here and there to improve looks but that was a hassle with colors clashing, so I would say my designing skills need improvement. But all in all my simple sinatra project works and I can say that there is room for improvement that I want to personally make. Theres also the fact of concepts I had to better learn about to better understand my own project. Such as the concept of params and where and how to access them. I already fully understood that params is an alias for parameters and that params comes from my controller section of my application, but what I needed to better understand was how they were being accesed by my application and where can they be accessed within my application. The params are being passed to the controller via a GET or POST request. In a GET request, params get passed to the controller from the browser. In a POST request, params will get passed to the controller from a form. So in my application, params are being accessed through my edit and create forms and they can be called with typing params in the terminal. 
Within my app, I also needed a better understanding of authentication mainly when logging in with a password. I  understand that when creating a user with password, it is easier with the use of the bycrypt gem and running a password_digest field within my app. From the creation of a user with password,  the Rails generator creates a password_digest field in the table and the "has_secure_password" in the model takes care of encrypting the password sending it to a server of sorts to be added in with random characters and provides the authenticate method to authenticate with that password.
From there I needed to run validations on info of the user such as email and name, with running them of having the presence of information placed into the field by the user and making it unique to that user.

